Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a drama film from 2019
based on true events, entitled Dark Waters.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
A car can be seen driving in the middle of
the night.
It stops next to a tall fence and a few teenagers
come out, immediately jumping over the fence.
They find a lake, where two of them skinny
dip.
Suddenly they are told to get out of the water
by two men in a boat, that are spraying the
water with some kind of substance.
More then 20 years later and a few states
over, a group of partners in a law firm gather
in a conference room to welcome a new partner,
Rob Billot.
Meanwhile, two farmers walk into the offices
of the firm and demand to speak to him.
His secretary goes to fetch him out of the
meeting and takes him where the men are waiting.
They explain that they are acquaintances of
his grandmother, who told them that Rob is
an environmental lawyer and they really need
his help.
One of the men tells him to watch the tapes
they've brought.
But Rob refuses them, explaining that he defends
big corporations.
The men leave and he returns to the meeting.
His boss, Tom Terp, asks about the trouble,
but Rob brushes it off.
That night, Rob is back home with his wife
and child, having dinner.
He seems troubled.
The next day he drives to West Virginia to
see his grandmother and investigate the case.
They talk about the farmers that came to see
him in his office and she tells him that she
used to take him and his sister over to their
farm when they were little.
He drives over toward the farm and on the
way sees a landfill, named Dry Run.
The man takes him inside of his house and
immediately starts showing him abnormal organs
taken from his cattle, which show sickness
and deformations.
Next, he takes him to a creek where his animals
drink the water, showing him strange white
rocks inside, saying those are some kind of
chemicals that are poisoning his cattle.
Rob turns around and sees only two cows.
The man takes him to the rest of cattle buried
in an adjacent field.
He's lost hundreds of cows.
Rob is concerned to learn that DuPont, the
chemical company which owns the landfill,
hasn't explained anything to the man, nor
reacted to any of his worries about the chemicals
in the creek.
Rob attends a work dinner with the president
of the DuPont company, which his firm has
been a friend off for a long time.
After dinner he goes up to the president and
asks him about the landfill.
The president diplomatically ends the conversation,
saying he will surely look into the matter.
Some time later, Rob comes back to the man's
farm and brings him an evaluation.
The report of the farm and cattle says that
the animals had died from inadequate care,
which angers the farmer, who's convinced otherwise.
As they argue, one of the cows starts behaving
strangely and is about to charge on them.
Rob gets in the truck and the man stays back.
The cow charges and he shoots her.
Later, Rob drives back through the town and
notices that the entire place is owned by
the chemical company.
Back at the office, he shows his boss the
video tapes the farmer left there and explains
the situation, asking to take the case for
free and help him out, because the local lawyers
are afraid of the company.
His boss reluctantly agrees, but tells him
to keep the case on point.
That day Rob has a telephone call with the
president of the company, telling him that
he's suing them and asking for more reports
on the landfill.
He's told that he'll get the reports.
The president doesn't sound too concerned
about the case and tells Rob he forgives him
for suing.
The report arrives one year later.
Rob is missing a party at his own house going
through the documents.
He finds different things inside that look
suspicious, with the acronym PFOA showing
up multiple times.
He searches for its meaning back at the office,
with no results.
One of his colleagues comes in and they talk
about the case.
Rob is worried that the company is doing something
illegal and hiding it, dumping chemicals which
they are not disclosing to the Environmental
Protection Agency.
His colleague doesn't know what P.F.O.A. stands
for either.
Meanwhile, the president starts dodging his
calls.
Later that night, Rob attends the Ohio Chemical
Alliance Awards dinner with his wife.
He looks for the president of DuPont throughout
the event and when he finally sees him, he
goes over to confront him.
The man is angry and makes a scene that doesn't
go well with Rob's wife, who's concerned if
Rob knows who he's going up against.
The next day, Rob's boss is furious with him
for making the case a big deal.
Court ordered documents for the case arrive
at the office.
DuPont is trying to burry Rob in materials
and reports, but he's determined to find out
what is going on, so he starts going through
them alone.
He finds the acronym PFOA again, with the
addition of C8.
Meanwhile, the farmers are getting slack back
in their town for suing the chemical company,
because it's the top employer in the area.
Rob meets with a chemist to ask him about
the things he's found.
The chemist tells him that he hasn't heard
of PFOA, but something similar.
It stands for a synthetic compound made in
a lab.
When Rob asks him what would happen if the
compound is ingested, the chemist can't believe
the question, saying that's like asking what
would happen if you ingest a tire.
One more year later, Rob is getting deeper
in the case, as he realizes that DuPont isn't
just poisoning cattle, but the people as well.
The chemical he's found on the document is
in the town's water.
He finds documents that confirm the suspicion.
Meanwhile, back in West Virginia, the farmer
that called Rob is seeing a doctor, because
he's been sick for a long time.
When he gets back home with his wife, they
find out that their documents have been ransacked
and the samples from the cattle stolen.
DuPont is threatening them and the farmer
is desperate to protect his family.
Soon after, Rob makes an even more terrifying
discovery.
Rob is back home and he tells his wife that
DuPont is poisoning everyone, their baby included.
His wife doesn't want to accept it, but he
explains it to her.
The chemical he's been investigating was created
during the Manhattan project in WW2.
After the war, some companies realized that
they can use the same chemical in other products.
DuPont was one of them.
They took the chemical, renamed it C8 and
made a coating for pans called Teflon.
The coating is made in a factory in West Virginia
and the company knew it was poisonous dating
back from the 60s.
Rob tells his boss the same information about
DuPont and the way in which they tried to
cover up the toxic C8 sludge over the years.
He's discovered that the company not only
knew, but made experiments that had shown
deformations in monkeys and rats, as well
as their offspring.
DuPont knew the same thing was happening with
their workers and their babies, but covered
that up as well.
The company knew what the product and byproducts
were doing, not just to their workers, but
to the consumers of the products as well.
And the product was everywhere, from pans
to paints and fabrics.
Rob's wife goes into labor and when the baby
is born, he asks the nurses if it has any
visible deformations, like the ones he's read
about in the files.
They tell him the baby is perfect.
After some time, Rob and his boss confront
the president of DuPont.
He tells him he knows everything about C8
and how far the contamination has gotten.
Later, he informs the farmer about it as well.
The farmer doesn't want to settle in a civil
case, thinking that the world needs to know
what the company has done.
Rob tells him that there is no way to fight
the company in court since they're too powerful.
They argue and the farmer tells him that both
him and his wife have cancer.
Nevertheless, Rob convinces him to take the
settlement and they sign the papers with the
president of the company.
But, in the meantime Rob has leaked all the
information about DuPont to the relevant institutions
and has signed up to testify in the case that
those governmental departments have filed
against the company.
His boss is furious with him, but wishes him
good luck in Washington.
Later, Rob is seen testifying there, asking
the departments to do something about the
situation with the contamination.
One year later in 2001, Rob, his wife and
one of his colleagues are called in the home
of the Kigers, who've gotten a letter from
DuPont.
The couple tells them about their family members
that have worked for the company and died
of cancer, but also about other people they
have known suffering the same fate.
The latest information prompts Rob to present
his law firm with a potential Class Action
Case, in which they would be representing
the people directly hurt by the company.
He bases the case around a legal loophole
that DuPont have set themselves, based on
self-regulation and medical monitoring.
The partners in the firm are divided with
some thinking that the company isn't in the
wrong and others staying on Rob's side.
The boss of the firm defends Rob and the case,
arguing they should do the right thing and
nail DuPont for their crime.
The next year, the case finally goes to court,
together with Harry Dietzler on Rob's side.
DuPont files a motion to dismiss the case,
since new regulations about contamination
have been put in place over night, changing
the course of Dietzer and Rob's legal case.
The official that's there to testify is seen
sitting next to the president of the company
and later is accused by Dietzer that she might
as well be working for them.
One more year later, Teflon becomes a popular
topic on the news in America and in the world.
With more and more alarming information coming
to light about the substance.
The Kigers also get threatened, when one of
their houses gets burned down.
They were lucky enough that was the empty
one.
Another year later the battle continues.
The chairman of the DuPont company is being
deposed by Rob for the case.
Rob confronts him with the evidence about
C8 from the 70's, listing diseases like cancer,
infertility and many others that have been
shown to be caused by the chemical.
He continues to show him documents about their
own experiments they've been trying to hide
and deny doing in the first place.
The defendant's attorneys are ready to leave
the deposition, when Rob shows the chairman
a picture of a deformed child.
Rob leaves the office and starts going toward
his car, panicking.
He starts the car slowly, terrified that it
might have been rigged with a bomb.
Some time later, DuPont has been fined by
the EPA to pay 16 million in damages.
But the damages the company needs to pay to
the Class Suit members is being mediated by
a third party, which implements an independent
science panel to determine the medical monitoring
aspect of the lawsuit.
That day, Rob and his two colleagues are celebrating.
One of them is very suspicious about the outcome
from the science panel, thinking the people
from the case won't show up for their examinations
and will take money from a settlement with
DuPont.
Rob comes up with the idea to check their
blood first and give them their money after
that, so they can show what the company has
done and stop their actions in the future.
Some years later, the blood tests are ongoing
as Rob drives into the West Virginian town.
Many people have gathered to be tested at
a mobile laboratory.
Rob walks inside and is greeted by the doctor,
who tells him that his plan worked.
Interestingly, a woman who is getting a test,
still believes that DuPont haven't done anything.
It's Christmas and Rob is celebrating with
friends and family.
He gets a call from his colleague, informing
him that 69 thousand people have been tested,
gathering an insane amount of data they needed.
Eleven years since the beginning of the case,
the farmer has died and Rob attends his funeral
with his family.
After the funeral, they go to a local diner,
when a man approaches them and tells Rob that
his brother has also died from cancer.
They leave and drive by the unemployment office,
where many people can be seen, some of them
angry with Rob.
Later, the Krigers call him to tell him that
they have trouble with the locals blaming
them for being part of the case, angry that
the case seems endless.
The wait for the results of the analysis of
the data is taking forever.
One more year later, Rob is seen having breakfast
with his wife and three sons.
The kids leave for school and he wonders if
they can still afford their catholic school.
His wife gets angry with him because he has
been obsessing with the case for so long and
has no idea what has been going on with their
family.
She storms out.
Later that day, Rob argues with his boss about
the case.
He explains that all the other governmental
instances have given up on the problem with
DuPont and that this case is the only thing
left that can fight the company.
As they argue, Rob starts shaking uncontrollably,
while his boss informs him that he will receive
another pay cut.
Rob gets a seizure and falls on the ground.
They take him to a hospital and are performing
tests.
Later, his wife and boss are there waiting
for the results.
A doctor comes in and explains that he has
had some kind of neurological problem.
When she leaves, Rob's wife and boss have
a conversation in which she tells him that
he needs to start treating him properly, because
he has been fighting in a way none of the
two can understand.
One more year later, the family is seen in
a church.
After, they go to a gas station when Rob finally
meets Bucky, the deformed child from the pictures
he's been seeing all these years.
The next day, he goes to the office.
He looks devastated.
Defeated even.
He's seen sitting on his desk, when he hears
his phone ringing and answers.
The call is from the doctor from the science
panel, instituted seven years before.
She informs him that the data has finally
been analyzed and it shows the precise link
of the DuPont contamination to six categories
of serious illness.
Thanks to his work, the people that might
get sick can seek compensation from the company.
Rob appears to have won.
He drives home and tells his family the news.
They are seen celebrating in a restaurant,
when Rob gets another call.
The news he gets is terrible.
DuPont is fighting against the findings of
the science panel.
He thinks it's over, that he's lost.
Companies like DuPont always win and the little
people always lose.
So it's those people he needs to protect.
It's 2015.
A court adjourns and the judge takes his seat.
Rob stands up to plead the case of his clients.
After wining 3 and settling 3,535 cases, Rob
Billot is still fighting.